+-------------+-------------------+
| Arbuthnot   | R Documentation   |
+-------------+-------------------+

Arbuthnot's data on male and female birth ratios in London from 1629-1710.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

John Arbuthnot (1710) used these time series data on the ratios of male
to female births in London from 1629-1710 to carry out the first known
significance test, comparing observed data to a null hypothesis. The
data for these 81 years showed that in every year there were more male
than female christenings.

On the assumption that male and female births were equally likely, he
showed that the probability of observing 82 years with more males than
females was vanishingly small (*~ 4.14 x 10^{-25}*). He used this to
argue that a nearly constant birth ratio > 1 could be interpreted to
show the guiding hand of a devine being. The data set adds variables of
deaths from the plague and total mortality obtained by Campbell and from
Creighton (1965).

Usage
~~~~~

::

    data(Arbuthnot)

Format
~~~~~~

A data frame with 82 observations on the following 7 variables.

``Year``
    a numeric vector, 1629-1710

``Males``
    a numeric vector, number of male christenings

``Females``
    a numeric vector, number of female christenings

``Plague``
    a numeric vector, number of deaths from plague

``Mortality``
    a numeric vector, total mortality

``Ratio``
    a numeric vector, ratio of Males/Females

``Total``
    a numeric vector, total christenings in London (000s)

Details
~~~~~~~

Sandy Zabell (1976) pointed out several errors and inconsistencies in
the Arbuthnot data. In particular, the values for 1674 and 1704 are
identical, suggesting that the latter were copied erroneously from the
former.

Source
~~~~~~

Arbuthnot, John (1710). "An argument for Devine Providence, taken from
the constant Regularity observ'd in the Births of both Sexes,"
*Philosophical transactions*, 27, 186-190. Published in 1711.

References
~~~~~~~~~~

Campbell, R. B., Arbuthnot and the Human Sex Ratio (2001). *Human
Biology*, 73:4, 605-610.

Creighton, C. (1965). A History of Epidemics in Britain, 2nd edition,
vol. 1 and 2. NY: Barnes and Noble.

S. Zabell (1976). Arbuthnot, Heberden, and the *Bills of Mortality*.
Technical Report No. 40, Department of Statistics, University of
Chicago.

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    data(Arbuthnot)
    # plot the sex ratios
    with(Arbuthnot, plot(Year,Ratio, type='b', ylim=c(1, 1.20), ylab="Sex Ratio (M/F)"))
    abline(h=1, col="red")
    #  add loess smooth
    Arb.smooth <- with(Arbuthnot, loess.smooth(Year,Ratio))
    lines(Arb.smooth$x, Arb.smooth$y, col="blue", lwd=2)

    # plot the total christenings to observe the anomalie in 1704
    with(Arbuthnot, plot(Year,Total, type='b', ylab="Total Christenings"))
