+---------+-------------------+
| Yeast   | R Documentation   |
+---------+-------------------+

Student's (1906) Yeast Cell Counts
----------------------------------

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

Counts of the number of yeast cells were made each of 400 regions in a
20 x 20 grid on a microscope slide, comprising a 1 sq. mm. area. This
experiment was repeated four times, giving samples A, B, C and D.

Student (1906) used these data to investigate the errors in random
sampling. He says "there are two sources of error: (a) the drop taken
may not be representative of the bulk of the liquid; (b) the
distribution of the cells over the area which is examined is never
exactly uniform, so that there is an 'error of random sampling.'"

The data in the paper are provided in the form of discrete frequency
distributions for the four samples. Each shows the frequency
distribution squares containing a ``count`` of 0, 1, 2, ... yeast cells.
These are combined here in ``Yeast``. In addition, he gives a table
(Table I) showing the actual number of yeast cells counted in the 20 x
20 grid for sample D, given here as ``YeastD.mat``.

Usage
~~~~~

::

        data(Yeast)
        data(YeastD.mat)
        

Format
~~~~~~

``Yeast``: A frequency data frame with 36 observations on the following
3 variables, giving the frequencies of

``sample``
    Sample identifier, a factor with levels ``A`` ``B`` ``C`` ``D``

``count``
    The number of yeast cells counted in a square

``freq``
    The number of squares with the given ``count``

``YeastD.mat``: A 20 x 20 matrix containing the count of yeast cells in
each square for sample D.

Details
~~~~~~~

Student considers the distribution of a total of *Nm* particles
distributed over *N* unit areas with an average of *m* particles per
unit area. With uniform mixing, for a given particle, the probability of
it falling on any one area is *p = 1/N*, and not falling on that area is
*q = 1 - 1/N*. He derives the probability distribution of 0, 1, 2, 3,
... particles on a single unit area from the binomial expansion of *(p +
q)^{mN}*.

Source
~~~~~~

D. J. Hand, F. Daly, D. Lunn, K. McConway and E. Ostrowski (1994). *A
Handbook of Small Data Sets*. London: Chapman \\& Hall. The data may be
found at:
http://www.stat.duke.edu/courses/Spring98/sta113/Data/Hand/yeast.dat

References
~~~~~~~~~~

"Student" (1906) On the error of counting with a haemocytometer.
Biometrika, 5, 351-360.
http://www.medicine.mcgill.ca/epidemiology/hanley/c626/Student_counting.pdf

Examples
~~~~~~~~

::

    data(Yeast)

    require(lattice)
    # basic bar charts 
    # TODO: frequencies should start at 0, not 1.
    barchart(count~freq|sample, data=Yeast, ylab="Number of Cells", xlab="Frequency")
    barchart(freq~count|sample, data=Yeast, xlab="Number of Cells", ylab="Frequency",
        horizontal=FALSE, origin=0)

    # same, using xyplot
    xyplot(freq~count|sample, data=Yeast, xlab="Number of Cells", ylab="Frequency",
        horizontal=FALSE, origin=0, type="h", lwd=10)
