+---------+-------------------+
| colon   | R Documentation   |
+---------+-------------------+

Chemotherapy for Stage B/C colon cancer
---------------------------------------

Description
~~~~~~~~~~~

These are data from one of the first successful trials of adjuvant
chemotherapy for colon cancer. Levamisole is a low-toxicity compound
previously used to treat worm infestations in animals; 5-FU is a
moderately toxic (as these things go) chemotherapy agent. There are two
records per person, one for recurrence and one for death

Usage
~~~~~

::

    colon

Format
~~~~~~

id:

id

study:

1 for all patients

rx:

Treatment - Obs(ervation), Lev(amisole), Lev(amisole)+5-FU

sex:

1=male

age:

in years

obstruct:

obstruction of colon by tumour

perfor:

perforation of colon

adhere:

adherence to nearby organs

nodes:

number of lymph nodes with detectable cancer

time:

days until event or censoring

status:

censoring status

differ:

differentiation of tumour (1=well, 2=moderate, 3=poor)

extent:

Extent of local spread (1=submucosa, 2=muscle, 3=serosa, 4=contiguous
structures)

surg:

time from surgery to registration (0=short, 1=long)

node4:

more than 4 positive lymph nodes

etype:

event type: 1=recurrence,2=death

Note
~~~~

The study is originally described in Laurie (1989). The main report is
found in Moertel (1990). This data set is closest to that of the final
report in Moertel (1991). A version of the data with less follow-up time
was used in the paper by Lin (1994).

References
~~~~~~~~~~

JA Laurie, CG Moertel, TR Fleming, HS Wieand, JE Leigh, J Rubin, GW
McCormack, JB Gerstner, JE Krook and J Malliard. Surgical adjuvant
therapy of large-bowel carcinoma: An evaluation of levamisole and the
combination of levamisole and fluorouracil: The North Central Cancer
Treatment Group and the Mayo Clinic. J Clinical Oncology, 7:1447-1456,
1989.

DY Lin. Cox regression analysis of multivariate failure time data: the
marginal approach. Statistics in Medicine, 13:2233-2247, 1994.

CG Moertel, TR Fleming, JS MacDonald, DG Haller, JA Laurie, PJ Goodman,
JS Ungerleider, WA Emerson, DC Tormey, JH Glick, MH Veeder and JA
Maillard. Levamisole and fluorouracil for adjuvant therapy of resected
colon carcinoma. New England J of Medicine, 332:352-358, 1990.

CG Moertel, TR Fleming, JS MacDonald, DG Haller, JA Laurie, CM Tangen,
JS Ungerleider, WA Emerson, DC Tormey, JH Glick, MH Veeder and JA
Maillard, Fluorouracil plus Levamisole as an effective adjuvant therapy
after resection of stage II colon carcinoma: a final report. Annals of
Internal Med, 122:321-326, 1991.
